README.md, before:

django-summernote
=================
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/summernote/django-summernote.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/summernote/django-summernote)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/summernote/django-summernote/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/summernote/django-summernote?branch=master)

[Summernote](https://github.com/summernote/summernote) is a simple WYSIWYG editor.

`django-summernote` allows you to embed Summernote into Django very handy. Support admin mixins and widgets.

![django-summernote](https://raw.github.com/lqez/pastebin/master/img/django-summernote.png "Screenshot of django-summernote")


SETUP
-----

1. Install `django-summernote` to your python environment.

       pip install django-summernote

2. Add `django_summernote` to `INSTALLED_APPS` in `settings.py`.

       INSTALLED_APPS += ('django_summernote', )

3. Add `django_summernote.urls` to `urls.py`.
     - For Django 1.x

           urlpatterns = [
               ...
               url(r'^summernote/', include('django_summernote.urls')),
               ...
           ]

     - For Django 2.x

           from django.urls import include
           # ...
           urlpatterns = [
               ...
               path('summernote/', include('django_summernote.urls')),
               ...
           ]

4. Be sure to set proper `MEDIA_URL` for attachments.
     - The following is an example test code:

           MEDIA_URL = '/media/'
           MEDIA_ROOT = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'media/')

     - When debug option is enabled(```DEBUG=True```), DO NOT forget to add urlpatterns as shown below:

           from django.conf import settings
           from django.conf.urls.static import static

           if settings.DEBUG:
               urlpatterns += static(settings.MEDIA_URL, document_root=settings.MEDIA_ROOT)

     - Please, read the [official v3.0 documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/topics/files/) for more details on file uploads.

5. Run database migration for preparing attachment model.

       python manage.py migrate

USAGE
-----
## Django admin site
### Apply summernote to all TextField in model
In `admin.py`,

```python
from django_summernote.admin import SummernoteModelAdmin
from .models import SomeModel

# Apply summernote to all TextField in model.
class SomeModelAdmin(SummernoteModelAdmin):  # instead of ModelAdmin
    summernote_fields = '__all__'

admin.site.register(SomeModel, SomeModelAdmin)
```

### Apply summernote only to specific TextField in model
Although `Post` model has several TextField, only `content` field will have `SummernoteWidget`.

In `admin.py`,

```python
from django_summernote.admin import SummernoteModelAdmin
from .models import Post

class PostAdmin(SummernoteModelAdmin):
    summernote_fields = ('content',)

admin.site.register(Post, PostAdmin)
```

## Form
In `forms`,

```python
from django_summernote.widgets import SummernoteWidget, SummernoteInplaceWidget

# Apply summernote to specific fields.
class SomeForm(forms.Form):
    foo = forms.CharField(widget=SummernoteWidget())  # instead of forms.Textarea

# If you don't like <iframe>, then use inplace widget
# Or if you're using django-crispy-forms, please use this.
class AnotherForm(forms.Form):
    bar = forms.CharField(widget=SummernoteInplaceWidget())
```

And for `ModelForm`,

```python
class FormFromSomeModel(forms.ModelForm):
    class Meta:
        model = SomeModel
        widgets = {
            'foo': SummernoteWidget(),
            'bar': SummernoteInplaceWidget(),
        }
```

Last, please don't forget to use `safe` templatetag while displaying in templates.

    {{ foobar|safe }}

__Warning__: Please mind, that the widget does not provide any escaping. If you expose the widget to external users without taking care of this, it could potentially lead to an injection vulnerability. Therefore you can use the SummernoteTextFormField or SummernoteTextField, which escape all harmful tags through mozilla's package bleach:

In `forms`,
```python
from django_summernote.fields import SummernoteTextFormField, SummernoteTextField

class SomeForm(forms.Form):
    foo = SummernoteTextFormField()

```

And for `ModelForm`,

```python
class FormForSomeModel(forms.ModelForm):
    foo = SummernoteTextField()
```

THEMES
------

django-summernote is served with Bootstrap3 by default, but you can choose other options.
You can change the theme by setting `SUMMERNOTE_THEME = '<theme_name>'` in `settings.py`.

`SUMMERNOTE_THEME` accepts the following values:

 - `bs3`: Bootstrap3 theme
 - `bs4`: Bootstrap4 theme
 - `lite`: Lite UI theme (without Bootstrap)

In settings.py

```python
SUMMERNOTE_THEME = 'bs4'  # Show summernote with Bootstrap4
```

OPTIONS
-------

Support customization via settings.
Put `SUMMERNOTE_CONFIG` into your settings file.

In settings.py,

```python
SUMMERNOTE_CONFIG = {
    # Using SummernoteWidget - iframe mode, default
    'iframe': True,

    # Or, you can set it to `False` to use SummernoteInplaceWidget by default - no iframe mode
    # In this case, you have to load Bootstrap/jQuery sources and dependencies manually.
    # Use this when you're already using Bootstrap/jQuery based themes.
    'iframe': False,

    # You can put custom Summernote settings
    'summernote': {
        # As an example, using Summernote Air-mode
        'airMode': False,

        # Change editor size
        'width': '100%',
        'height': '480',

        # Use proper language setting automatically (default)
        'lang': None,

        # Toolbar customization
        # https://summernote.org/deep-dive/#custom-toolbar-popover
        'toolbar': [
            ['style', ['style']],
            ['font', ['bold', 'underline', 'clear']],
            ['fontname', ['fontname']],
            ['color', ['color']],
            ['para', ['ul', 'ol', 'paragraph']],
            ['table', ['table']],
            ['insert', ['link', 'picture', 'video']],
            ['view', ['fullscreen', 'codeview', 'help']],
        ],

        # Or, explicitly set language/locale for editor
        'lang': 'ko-KR',
        ...

        # You can also add custom settings for external plugins
        'print': {
            'stylesheetUrl': '/some_static_folder/printable.css',
        },
        'codemirror': {
            'mode': 'htmlmixed',
            'lineNumbers': 'true',
            # You have to include theme file in 'css' or 'css_for_inplace' before using it.
            'theme': 'monokai',
        },
    },

    # Require users to be authenticated for uploading attachments.
    'attachment_require_authentication': True,

    # Set `upload_to` function for attachments.
    'attachment_upload_to': my_custom_upload_to_func(),

    # Set custom storage class for attachments.
    'attachment_storage_class': 'my.custom.storage.class.name',

    # Set custom model for attachments (default: 'django_summernote.Attachment')
    'attachment_model': 'my.custom.attachment.model', # must inherit 'django_summernote.AbstractAttachment'

    # You can completely disable the attachment feature.
    'disable_attachment': False,

    # Set to `True` to return attachment paths in absolute URIs.
    'attachment_absolute_uri': False,

    # test_func in summernote upload view. (Allow upload images only when user passes the test)
    # https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.2/topics/auth/default/#django.contrib.auth.mixins.UserPassesTestMixin
    ```
    def example_test_func(request):
        return request.user.groups.filter(name='group_name').exists()
    ```
    'test_func_upload_view': example_test_func,

    # You can add custom css/js for SummernoteWidget.
    'css': (
    ),
    'js': (
    ),

    # You can also add custom css/js for SummernoteInplaceWidget.
    # !!! Be sure to put {{ form.media }} in template before initiate summernote.
    'css_for_inplace': (
    ),
    'js_for_inplace': (
    ),

    # Codemirror as codeview
    # If any codemirror settings are defined, it will include codemirror files automatically.
    'css': (
        '//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/codemirror/5.29.0/theme/monokai.min.css',
    ),

    # Lazy initialization
    # If you want to initialize summernote at the bottom of page, set this as True
    # and call `initSummernote()` on your page.
    'lazy': True,

    # To use external plugins,
    # Include them within `css` and `js`.
    'js': {
        '/some_static_folder/summernote-ext-print.js',
        '//somewhere_in_internet/summernote-plugin-name.js',
    },
}
```

  - There are pre-defined css/js files for widgets.
    - See them at [summernote default settings](https://github.com/summernote/django-summernote/blob/master/django_summernote/settings.py#L106-L133)
  - About language/locale: [Summernote i18n section](http://summernote.org/getting-started/#i18n-support)
  - About Air-mode, see [Summernote air-mode example page](http://summernote.org/examples/#air-mode).
  - About toolbar customization, please refer [Summernote toolbar section](http://summernote.org/deep-dive/#custom-toolbar-popover).

You can style the editor via widget's attributes. These adhoc styling will override settings from `SUMMERNOTE_CONFIG`.

```python
# Apply adhoc style via attributes
class SomeForm(forms.Form):
    foo = forms.CharField(widget=SummernoteWidget(attrs={'summernote': {'width': '50%', 'height': '400px'}}))
```

You can also pass additional parameters to custom `Attachment` model by adding attributes to SummernoteWidget or SummernoteInplaceWidget, any attribute starting with `data-` will be pass to the `save(...)` method of custom `Attachment` model as `**kwargs`.

```python
# Pass additional parameters to Attachment via attributes
class SomeForm(forms.Form):
    foo = forms.CharField(widget=SummernoteWidget(attrs={'data-user-id': 123456, 'data-device': 'iphone'}))
```

TEST
----

Run `tox`. If you don't have it, just `pip install tox`

You can also run test with only specified targets.
```
$ tox -e py35-dj111, py38-dj301
```


LIMITATIONS
-----------

`django-summernote` does currently not support upload of non-image files.


LICENSE
-------

`django-summernote` is distributed under MIT license and proudly served by great contributors.

Commit message:

update for. 3.x users
Required command for text functionality on Django 3.x

README.md, after:

django-summernote
=================
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/summernote/django-summernote.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/summernote/django-summernote)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/summernote/django-summernote/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/summernote/django-summernote?branch=master)

[Summernote](https://github.com/summernote/summernote) is a simple WYSIWYG editor.

`django-summernote` allows you to embed Summernote into Django very handy. Support admin mixins and widgets.

![django-summernote](https://raw.github.com/lqez/pastebin/master/img/django-summernote.png "Screenshot of django-summernote")


SETUP
-----

1. Install `django-summernote` to your python environment.

       pip install django-summernote

2. Add `django_summernote` to `INSTALLED_APPS` in `settings.py`.

       INSTALLED_APPS += ('django_summernote', )
       
    Additional for Django 3.x users
       
       Add `X_FRAME_OPTIONS` to your `settings.py`.
       
       X_FRAME_OPTIONS = 'SAMEORIGIN'

3. Add `django_summernote.urls` to `urls.py`.
     - For Django 1.x

           urlpatterns = [
               ...
               url(r'^summernote/', include('django_summernote.urls')),
               ...
           ]

     - For Django 2.x

           from django.urls import include
           # ...
           urlpatterns = [
               ...
               path('summernote/', include('django_summernote.urls')),
               ...
           ]

4. Be sure to set proper `MEDIA_URL` for attachments.
     - The following is an example test code:

           MEDIA_URL = '/media/'
           MEDIA_ROOT = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'media/')

     - When debug option is enabled(```DEBUG=True```), DO NOT forget to add urlpatterns as shown below:

           from django.conf import settings
           from django.conf.urls.static import static

           if settings.DEBUG:
               urlpatterns += static(settings.MEDIA_URL, document_root=settings.MEDIA_ROOT)

     - Please, read the [official v3.0 documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/topics/files/) for more details on file uploads.

5. Run database migration for preparing attachment model.

       python manage.py migrate

USAGE
-----
## Django admin site
### Apply summernote to all TextField in model
In `admin.py`,

```python
from django_summernote.admin import SummernoteModelAdmin
from .models import SomeModel

# Apply summernote to all TextField in model.
class SomeModelAdmin(SummernoteModelAdmin):  # instead of ModelAdmin
    summernote_fields = '__all__'

admin.site.register(SomeModel, SomeModelAdmin)
```

### Apply summernote only to specific TextField in model
Although `Post` model has several TextField, only `content` field will have `SummernoteWidget`.

In `admin.py`,

```python
from django_summernote.admin import SummernoteModelAdmin
from .models import Post

class PostAdmin(SummernoteModelAdmin):
    summernote_fields = ('content',)

admin.site.register(Post, PostAdmin)
```

## Form
In `forms`,

```python
from django_summernote.widgets import SummernoteWidget, SummernoteInplaceWidget

# Apply summernote to specific fields.
class SomeForm(forms.Form):
    foo = forms.CharField(widget=SummernoteWidget())  # instead of forms.Textarea

# If you don't like <iframe>, then use inplace widget
# Or if you're using django-crispy-forms, please use this.
class AnotherForm(forms.Form):
    bar = forms.CharField(widget=SummernoteInplaceWidget())
```

And for `ModelForm`,

```python
class FormFromSomeModel(forms.ModelForm):
    class Meta:
        model = SomeModel
        widgets = {
            'foo': SummernoteWidget(),
            'bar': SummernoteInplaceWidget(),
        }
```

Last, please don't forget to use `safe` templatetag while displaying in templates.

    {{ foobar|safe }}

__Warning__: Please mind, that the widget does not provide any escaping. If you expose the widget to external users without taking care of this, it could potentially lead to an injection vulnerability. Therefore you can use the SummernoteTextFormField or SummernoteTextField, which escape all harmful tags through mozilla's package bleach:

In `forms`,
```python
from django_summernote.fields import SummernoteTextFormField, SummernoteTextField

class SomeForm(forms.Form):
    foo = SummernoteTextFormField()

```

And for `ModelForm`,

```python
class FormForSomeModel(forms.ModelForm):
    foo = SummernoteTextField()
```

THEMES
------

django-summernote is served with Bootstrap3 by default, but you can choose other options.
You can change the theme by setting `SUMMERNOTE_THEME = '<theme_name>'` in `settings.py`.

`SUMMERNOTE_THEME` accepts the following values:

 - `bs3`: Bootstrap3 theme
 - `bs4`: Bootstrap4 theme
 - `lite`: Lite UI theme (without Bootstrap)

In settings.py

```python
SUMMERNOTE_THEME = 'bs4'  # Show summernote with Bootstrap4
```

OPTIONS
-------

Support customization via settings.
Put `SUMMERNOTE_CONFIG` into your settings file.

In settings.py,

```python
SUMMERNOTE_CONFIG = {
    # Using SummernoteWidget - iframe mode, default
    'iframe': True,

    # Or, you can set it to `False` to use SummernoteInplaceWidget by default - no iframe mode
    # In this case, you have to load Bootstrap/jQuery sources and dependencies manually.
    # Use this when you're already using Bootstrap/jQuery based themes.
    'iframe': False,

    # You can put custom Summernote settings
    'summernote': {
        # As an example, using Summernote Air-mode
        'airMode': False,

        # Change editor size
        'width': '100%',
        'height': '480',

        # Use proper language setting automatically (default)
        'lang': None,

        # Toolbar customization
        # https://summernote.org/deep-dive/#custom-toolbar-popover
        'toolbar': [
            ['style', ['style']],
            ['font', ['bold', 'underline', 'clear']],
            ['fontname', ['fontname']],
            ['color', ['color']],
            ['para', ['ul', 'ol', 'paragraph']],
            ['table', ['table']],
            ['insert', ['link', 'picture', 'video']],
            ['view', ['fullscreen', 'codeview', 'help']],
        ],

        # Or, explicitly set language/locale for editor
        'lang': 'ko-KR',
        ...

        # You can also add custom settings for external plugins
        'print': {
            'stylesheetUrl': '/some_static_folder/printable.css',
        },
        'codemirror': {
            'mode': 'htmlmixed',
            'lineNumbers': 'true',
            # You have to include theme file in 'css' or 'css_for_inplace' before using it.
            'theme': 'monokai',
        },
    },

    # Require users to be authenticated for uploading attachments.
    'attachment_require_authentication': True,

    # Set `upload_to` function for attachments.
    'attachment_upload_to': my_custom_upload_to_func(),

    # Set custom storage class for attachments.
    'attachment_storage_class': 'my.custom.storage.class.name',

    # Set custom model for attachments (default: 'django_summernote.Attachment')
    'attachment_model': 'my.custom.attachment.model', # must inherit 'django_summernote.AbstractAttachment'

    # You can completely disable the attachment feature.
    'disable_attachment': False,

    # Set to `True` to return attachment paths in absolute URIs.
    'attachment_absolute_uri': False,

    # test_func in summernote upload view. (Allow upload images only when user passes the test)
    # https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.2/topics/auth/default/#django.contrib.auth.mixins.UserPassesTestMixin
    ```
    def example_test_func(request):
        return request.user.groups.filter(name='group_name').exists()
    ```
    'test_func_upload_view': example_test_func,

    # You can add custom css/js for SummernoteWidget.
    'css': (
    ),
    'js': (
    ),

    # You can also add custom css/js for SummernoteInplaceWidget.
    # !!! Be sure to put {{ form.media }} in template before initiate summernote.
    'css_for_inplace': (
    ),
    'js_for_inplace': (
    ),

    # Codemirror as codeview
    # If any codemirror settings are defined, it will include codemirror files automatically.
    'css': (
        '//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/codemirror/5.29.0/theme/monokai.min.css',
    ),

    # Lazy initialization
    # If you want to initialize summernote at the bottom of page, set this as True
    # and call `initSummernote()` on your page.
    'lazy': True,

    # To use external plugins,
    # Include them within `css` and `js`.
    'js': {
        '/some_static_folder/summernote-ext-print.js',
        '//somewhere_in_internet/summernote-plugin-name.js',
    },
}
```

  - There are pre-defined css/js files for widgets.
    - See them at [summernote default settings](https://github.com/summernote/django-summernote/blob/master/django_summernote/settings.py#L106-L133)
  - About language/locale: [Summernote i18n section](http://summernote.org/getting-started/#i18n-support)
  - About Air-mode, see [Summernote air-mode example page](http://summernote.org/examples/#air-mode).
  - About toolbar customization, please refer [Summernote toolbar section](http://summernote.org/deep-dive/#custom-toolbar-popover).

You can style the editor via widget's attributes. These adhoc styling will override settings from `SUMMERNOTE_CONFIG`.

```python
# Apply adhoc style via attributes
class SomeForm(forms.Form):
    foo = forms.CharField(widget=SummernoteWidget(attrs={'summernote': {'width': '50%', 'height': '400px'}}))
```

You can also pass additional parameters to custom `Attachment` model by adding attributes to SummernoteWidget or SummernoteInplaceWidget, any attribute starting with `data-` will be pass to the `save(...)` method of custom `Attachment` model as `**kwargs`.

```python
# Pass additional parameters to Attachment via attributes
class SomeForm(forms.Form):
    foo = forms.CharField(widget=SummernoteWidget(attrs={'data-user-id': 123456, 'data-device': 'iphone'}))
```

TEST
----

Run `tox`. If you don't have it, just `pip install tox`

You can also run test with only specified targets.
```
$ tox -e py35-dj111, py38-dj301
```


LIMITATIONS
-----------

`django-summernote` does currently not support upload of non-image files.


LICENSE
-------

`django-summernote` is distributed under MIT license and proudly served by great contributors.
